I'm on the phone.
Daryl John, I'm on the phone. I'm on the phone. I'm on the phone. I'm on the
phone. Daryl John, I'm on the phone. Daryl John, I'm on the phone. Daryl John, I
got some other people coming on the line here who are working on the show.
Daryl, are you on the line? Yes. Howdy. Okay, Dave, are you on the line? Okay,
Dave's getting the levels set. Go ahead. How's the weather out in Florida? I
haven't looked out the window today. I think it's been pretty cloudy and a lot
taller than we've been having. I think we've been having an easier time for you.
You said this morning you were pretty high up but maybe you missed the worst of
it. It's been fairly. We're in our rainy season. We've had a lot of rain in the
last couple of weeks. Yeah, I was out there in September. I managed to hit
Hurricane Frederick and Hurricane David. I was up in Washington DC and I got
roasted. I was in New York City and I got roasted and I came back to Florida and
cut down. Now that's the irony. Pretty good. How are the levels, Dave? Dave, are
you on the line? Yes, I'm here. Okay, you got the levels set? Yes. Tape rolling.
Right. Okay. Hi. Okay, the next voice will be David Cruz. Hi there. And the
other voice is Darrell Lane. Glad to meet you, Mr. Fogum. Likewise. There are
three as your end and one here. Right. I'm out behind. Okay. Okay, yeah, we're
the team that puts together the show. Yeah, the line is a little bit faint. Your
voice drops here and there and I miss a syllable. Okay, we'll try and be
distinct on this end. It's a warning one somehow. It would help me. Okay,
everybody's speaking to the mouthpiece real good. Okay, I think Darrell's going
to lead off with a question. We're going to first be talking about your book Two
Faces tomorrow. Uh-huh. Yeah, Mr. Hogan, you have some people in the novel, I
think Hayes, and maybe Frank Westcott too, that mention that machines might be
the next step in evolution. Yeah. That there's a natural movement from organic
life to inorganic. Right. Do you personally believe this or is that just a
notion you play with? A bit of both, really. It's one way of interpreting the
direction that we seem to be moving in. I don't set myself up under profit. I
like to play with things that might be thrown and get pictures around them. I
apply the word evolution not to the restricted sense to biological species, but
to the universal process that characterizes the emergence of more complex and
more highly ordered systems, out of simpler systems. The way we're in this issue
is entropy reversal. We've got a lot of doom plotting these days who are worried
about energy running out, and the latest word they've ratched on to is entropy,
and the universe is all going to run down and we'll have to wind down the wicks
in our oil lamps to ration things out so the universe will run another day. And
I think they're listing the word entropy out of its scientific context and
applying it really without a full understanding of its meaning. Entropy
increases naturally in a closed system. In other words, one that is isolated
physically or functionally from its environment, particularly from an energy
source. It seems to be the universal tendency, and I use the term universal and
in this world then, tendency throughout the universe. The systems that are
experience and energy throughput, to actually self-organize for more complex
structures to emerge. Going right back to the primordial pattern of stellar in
series, or whatever became maybe for that, we had raw nuclei, and then when the
temperatures drop a little, electrons shift stately around the nucleus to form
the atoms. Then when you get down to the temperature of a planetary surface,
molecules begin to form progressively more complex and more fragile molecules
than the temperature reduces, until eventually you get life. It's eventually
intelligence. And each step in the process, the whole, the thrust of the
underlying process seems to be to produce more complex, more energy-intensive
systems that operated a higher energy throughput from lower ones. At the latest
stage in the network we term life the more recent part of the spectrum, and it's
far broader than that. And each step along the way seems to be the prerequisite
to the next. It couldn't have life until we had organic molecules, it couldn't
have a brain. It couldn't have intelligence and we had a brain. And now that the
brain has appeared, well, what is that, what could that be considered a
prerequisite for? It's a guided intelligence to make machines. And I see no raw
image or no principle of the third machine towards the nonintelligence, I'll
take it and we'll be coming up again later. So it seems to be simply another
step along the way to extrapolate the process. And by the same token I see
absolutely nothing unnatural without the applied intelligence,
the totality of human society. What comes after that, I don't know. You know,
that's a very interesting answer. David told me to hold it for just a second.
He's plugging in another machine to increase the clarity. OK. Maybe it's the
accident, I think the wind is concerned to... No.
Can you hear us OK? Yeah, you're coming through. OK, let me get the machine
running again.
OK. Yeah, I think we're back now. Yeah, I think we had some tape, some leaks. It
sounded like a data processing type. I think there was maybe a computer trying
to get on the line.
Maybe they're trying to tell us something. Yeah. He's checking out the tape
machine real quick. OK, James, talk to me for just a second. Excuse me? Speak to
me so I can get a level.
Just say a few words there so we... Do you need to set the levels again or
something? Yeah, there we go. That's got it just fine. I'll leave with you. OK.
Good.
Zero.
David, you back with us? Yes. Go ahead, Darrell. I see more traffic. David,
Cruz, why don't you go ahead? Take your turn. Mr. Hogan, I understand that you
work with computers yourself. Do you know how far that we have come toward
having a computer program like Hesper that makes a common sense type of
judgment? Not very far, I suspect.
It's interesting to us if we look at the process of evolution of physical forms.
And that's why we're the ones that we're not as big as we do. I've seen the fact
that we're not getting into it. We've seen the fact
that we're not getting into it. We've seen the fact that we're not getting into
it. We're seeing the fact that we're not getting into it. We can't see that this
is a long time. We're seeing the fact that we're not getting into it. We're
seeing the fact that we're not getting into it.
We're seeing the fact that we're not getting into it. But, in that process, we
begin to pick out a lot of the basic ingredients that pretty well everybody
would agree are necessary components of what we normally termed inhabitants. For
example, I am answering your question. I'm going to run around about kind of
weight. I am working on a lot of the data, and there is a lot of the data that
we have in the movement. The earliest jellyfish or the sponges, let's go back to
the sponges, involved specialized cells that responded to stimuli tactile
stimuli in the environment and produced reflex reactions such as expanding a
cell and increasing the probability of filtering through the water. And by the
time you get the jellyfish, it is the cells that are specialized and connected
up into a primitive neural network that is coordinating the whole organism. They
are not just part of it. Later on we get concentrations of neural tissues that
are occurring into the brain. They are not just part of it. And as the brain
develops through successively my own animals, the entities that are processed in
the brain become progressively further removed from the raw physical sensory
data that comes in from the outside world. They become more abstract, more
removed from the reality and more symbolic. Why? For example, the ultimate
expression of the purpose of a human being. The entities that we manipulate in
our minds are well physically, excuse me. The quantities that impinge on our
senses are pressure waves, electromagnetic waves, physical contact. In terms of
basic physics, we don't perceive the world around us or ourselves in many terms.
We manipulate symbolic representations of people, friends, enemies, places,
emotions, and all the complicated things that go together to make up the world
model of the complex organism that are acting to the complex environment at a
high level. And along the way the organism would be building up the environment
and the environment and the if it's in selection of abstract symbols would be
necessary to develop a world model. An analogue of the world around it, which
necessarily makes the form of a three-dimensional model impacted by objects.
Then if its
leading
to survive, the world is the same. It becomes the primary driving force, then. A
very necessary function to evolve the notion of self-seeking survival and to
protect that distinct and distinct from the other, but the remainder of the
environment which is a secondary form. So the kind of self-image within that
environment becomes more pretty hard to escape, not to put it in evolutionary
terms. Once its self-image began to emerge, it will be very very strongly
reinforced. a little bit of a very strong movement, but the same thing is what
you need to do. And if you're going up to the wall complex, I believe, you can
get the station
of... ...
Yes, sir. The, um...
Let me ask you... Let me ask you something that's along those lines. Yeah. Well,
we're getting there.
The... The... At, uh... Another function that would have its enormous survival
value is when it's when we've now got in mind that to manipulate symbolic
representations of the universe around it, the world around it, the objects in
having that universe, uh, this is to stretch that ability and start to play with
combinations of symbols that don't actually represent the world as it is, but
represent the world as it could be. In other words, it takes its existing set of
symbols and starts to combine them in new ways. It can have, it can build models
of possible dangers or threats that could affect its well-being and take timely
action to avoid them. In other words, the faculty of anticipation. And if, which
again would have strong survival values. And if the faculty of anticipation is
nothing more than playing with familiar symbols and unfamiliar combinations, in
other words, playing with worlds that might exist, I don't think we're very much
of a step away from creativity and imagination. It seems to be an extension of
the same process. And once we're up at that level of complexity, there are so
many things going on in the mind that, uh, there are obviously when evaluating
the responses of the situations demanding, uh, like a computer operating system
that might begin to, to make the whole thing work, be some kind of an overseeing
process that can distinguish between the things that are immediate in survival
now, like the climate happening down the hill. Um, and other things that will
become threats later that can be disturbed that we're trying to be like getting
hungry. Which, it really implies some kind of monitoring process of the mind's
own functions, in other words, an awareness of what's going on inside it. And if
we couple that faculty of awareness with the self-image that we've already
postulated, surely we have self-awareness, uh, with creativity and imagination.
Do we really mean any more than that than we say mind? Uh, I would say no. Uh,
and now answering your question, I'd say that it's because of computers. Uh,
probably computers that we have right now in the most advanced models are kind
of analogous to that earlier, in jellyfish. Uh, you apply a given set of
stimuli, and, uh, the predictable response results in the behavior pattern is
very rigid and very uh, very, just very predictable and very mechanical. But,
uh, our minds operate, here, people sometimes use this as an objection, they say
that a computer could, or, not necessarily a computer, any form of man may
insist it would be a machine and never think and do all the things that we imply
that we use the word mind. So, uh, because it's built of mechanical components
like integrated circuits, that are predictable, they, they always give the same
output response or given input. Um, and there is many of the element of whimsy
or unpredictableness of characterizing the human being. So, I think they're
missing a point, you could see, you could make exactly the same statement
regarding the human brain. Now that it's fundamental on hardware levels, the
brain consists of the neurons. Uh, the inputs to a neuron are outputs from other
cells. Some of them inhibitory and some excitory. And, uh, given a certain
combination of inputs, a tiny micro-program, if you will, operating within the
cell simply to, processes all those inputs and provides a single output that
goes to one side. And the cell either fires or it doesn't come out. So, uh, uh,
uh,
the
most powerful things that we can do, we can do, we can do, we can do, we can do,
we can do, we can do, we can do, we can do, we can do, we can do, we can do. So,
uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh,
uh, uh, uh, uh, uh. I can't
do that. I can't do that. I can't do
that. I can't do that. I can't do that. I can't do that. I can't do that. I
can't do that. I can't do that.
I can't do that. I can't do that. I can't do that. I can't do that. I can't do
that. I can't do that. I can't do that. I can't do that. I can't do that. I
can't do that. I can't do that. I can't do that. I can't do that. I can't do
that. I can't do that. I can't do that.
I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I
can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't
do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do
it. I can't do it.
I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I
can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't
do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do
it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I
can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't
do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it.
I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I
can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't
do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do
it. I can't do it.
I can't do it.
I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I
can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't
do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do
it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I
can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it.
I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it.
I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I
can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't
do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do
it.
I can't do it. I can't do it.
I can't do it. I can't do
it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I
can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't
do it.
I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I
can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't
do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do
it. I can't do it. I can't
it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I
can't do it. Mr. Hoban, this is Dave Carson again. Um... You must have had some
sort of inspiration for Two Faces of Tomorrow. What brought on the novel?
I can't do it.
What brought on
the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on
the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought
on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought
on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on
the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought
on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought
on
the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought
on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on
the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on
the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? How brought on
the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought
on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought
on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel?
What brought on
the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on
the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on
the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on
the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought
on
the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on
the novel? What brought
on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel?
What brought on the novel? What brought on the novel? What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel?
brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on
novel?
What brought on
novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
brought on novel? What brought on novel?
What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
brought on novel?
brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on
novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
brought on novel?
What brought on
novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on
novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on
novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on
novel?
What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on
novel? What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on
novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on
novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel?
What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought
on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought
on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on
novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on
novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
novel? What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on
novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on
novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
novel? What brought
on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on
novel?
What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel?
What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on
novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What
novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel? What brought on novel?